# BindPPI
## About
<font size=4>

BindPPI calculates binding affinities for protein-protein interactions. It includes three representative best-performing models. The first model is structure-based, consisting of a random forest regression and thirteen handcrafted features, named as RF_{13}. The second model is sequence-based, employing an architecture that combines transferred embedding features with a multilayer perceptron, named as MLP_{5120}. Finally, we created an ensemble model by averaging the predictions of the two aforementioned models, named as AvgEns. For RF_{13} and AvgEns, the input requires the 3D structure of the protein-protein complex, while MLP_{5120} only needs the sequence of the complex for computation.

</font>

## I.Docker image pull
The prefered and easiest is by pulling the docker image made available publicly.

**prerequisites:** [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

Just pull the image:

```
docker pull minghuilab/bindppi:v1
```

## II.Build the image:

```
docker run -it minghuilab/bindppi:v1 /bin/bash
conda activate myenv
cd bindppi
```

## III. RUNNING BindPPI

### For model RF_{13}
```sh
python BindPPI_RF13.py -i example_1akj
```
To run RF_{13}, you need to create a folder and prepare two input files (refer to the files example_1akj.input and 1AKJ.pdb in the example_1akj folder).

The output file is example_1akj.RF13 within the example_1akj file.

### For model MLP_{5120}
```sh
python BindPPI_MLP5120.py -f ./MLP5120_example/sample_input_sequence.json -o your_output_file
```
To run MLP_{5120}, you simply need to create a JSON file containing the input sequences for each complex (refer to the file sample_input_sequence.json in the MLP5120_example folder).

The output file is your_output_file, defaulting to ./MLP5120_example/MLP5120_prediction.txt.

### For model AvgEns
```sh
python BindPPI_AvgEns.py -i example_1akj
```
To run AvgEns, you need to create a folder and prepare three input files (refer to the files example_1akj.input, 1AKJ.pdb, and example_1akj.json in the example_1akj folder).

The output file is example_1akj.AvgEns within the example_1akj file.

### The input files
<font size=4> 

1. 1AKJ.pdb: The 3D structure of a protein complex, which can be obtained from the Protein Data Bank (PDB) or created by the user.

2. example_1akj.input: The input file name must be consistent with the name of the input folder.

- PDBfile: coordinate file of a complex structure.
- Partner1: includes the selected protein chains for interaction partner 1 for calculation. If there are multiple chains, please separate them using periods "." (for example, A_1.B_1). If any protein/chain in the structure has one model, they are depicted with the labels of alphanumeric combinations (for example, ‘A_1’). If any protein/chain in the structure generated by applying symmetry operations has several models, they are described as ‘A_1’, ‘A_2’...;.
- Partner2: includes the selected protein chains for interaction partner 2 for calculation.

  The columns are separated by tabs.

3. example_1akj.json: Includes the protein sequences of both Partner 1 and Partner 2. The input file name must be consistent with the name of the input folder. If there are multiple chains, please separate them using commas.
   
4. sample_input_sequence.json: Includes the protein sequences of three complexes. 

</font>
