# BindPPI-v1.0
## About
<font size=4> 
  
To run RF_{13}, you need to create a folder and prepare two input files (refer to the files 1a2k.input and 1A2K.pdb in the 1a2k folder).

To run AvgEns, you need to create a folder and prepare three input files (refer to the files 1a2k.input, 1A2K.pdb, and 1a2k.json in the 1a2k folder).


To run MLP_{5120}, you simply need to create a JSON file containing the input sequences for each complex (refer to the file sample_input_sequence.json in the MLP5120_example folder).


## The input files
<font size=4> 

1. 1A2K.pdb: The 3D structure of a protein complex, which can be obtained from the Protein Data Bank (PDB) or created by the user.

2. 1a2k.input: The input file name must be consistent with the name of the input folder.

- PDBfile: coordinate file of a complex structure.
- Partner1: includes the selected protein chains for interaction partner 1 for calculation. If there are multiple chains, please separate them using periods "." (for example, A_1.B_1). If any protein/chain in the structure has one model, they are depicted with the labels of alphanumeric combinations (for example, ‘A_1’). If any protein/chain in the structure generated by applying symmetry operations has several models, they are described as ‘A_1’, ‘A_2’...;.
- Partner2: includes the selected protein chains for interaction partner 2 for calculation.

  The columns are separated by tabs.

3. 1a2k.json: Includes the protein sequences of both Partner 1 and Partner 2. The input file name must be consistent with the name of the input folder. If there are multiple chains, please separate them using commas.
   
5. sample_input_sequence.json: Includes the protein sequences of three complexes. 

</font>

